---
title: "Good value, bad value"
date: 2025-08-11
draft: false
---

<!-- Planning -->
<!-- 

Thoughts for an idea:
 - Looking at FIRE, how it is right, how it's wrong
 - Intro to FIRE and the general concept
 - The main critisms
 - What is salvagable
 - Good value things/rules for good value things
 - Bad value things/

*Thinking about value in the context of our capitilistic world*

*Opting out of certain aspects*

*"There is a leisure class at both ends of the economic spectrum"*

*Hedonic adaptation is a thing, we don't exactly know how much it holds, let

along be able to predict what it is for us individually, but we do know what
makes us unhappy. Financial insecurity, being sick, being hungry, being lonely*


--------------------------------------------------------------------------- -->

*Hi!*

*I wrote this on the 15th of December, 2024 as a part of an experiment with
D'Arcy to make one creative thing each week. We only did it for two weeks oops
but it was still fun. Anyway I am repurposing it here because I stumbled upon
it whilst looking through my files.*

*It's pretty rough and rushed, but it was alright.*

---


It's very rare that we think about value in a ground up way. Obviously we have
the measuring stick that currency provides us, and with it most people tend to
find themselves using it to compare objects and experiences of likeness, e.g.,
the price of one shirt vs another, one holiday vs another, one house vs
another. But it is rare that we think about the value of things 'across kinds'.
It's quite likely that this is the most effective sort of comparison, both in
savings one money and time, and in getting the most from life.

For example, most people who travel (or even simply have the desire to travel)
are aware of websites such as skyscanner, Google flights, WebJet etc. And in
the "*old world*" perhaps even a greater percentage are aware of travel
agencies life Flight centre, Hello World etc. The 'economic value' of just
these online tools is estimated to be around 15-18 billion in current year\* -
a decent chunk of money that Claude tells me is about the same size as the
global Craft beer industry (?).

Just to be clear too, this value is that which can be extracted **on-top of**
the money saved by the consumer selecting the flights. That is, these platforms
make money by charging a commission to the ultimate airline. And hence why
there exist some airlines that have chosen to disallow all or some of their
flights to be findable or sold on these sites to save the commission that they
have to pay (e.g., Southwest, partially Emirates, partially Ryanair).

It's clear that there certainly can be substantial value to the consumer from
these services -- often one can save hundreds of dollars on any given flight --
however, the vast amount of this saving really acrues to the fact that you are
finding a *relatively empty plane* which the airline would really like to fill
up. The rest of the savings are predominately minor or rather dubious, and
often 'cost' much of one's time.

The most relevant mistake people seem to make is the selection of cheapest
flight no matter what. They end up in Doha for 18 hours overnight, developing
frostbite whilst sleeping on their bone rattling tiles, and all-in-all, having
a miserable time for often the saving of $50 or so. Leaving aside the fact that
these savings were likely spent on a $25 beer and similarly priced packet of
Maltesers at the airport, its probably the case that in the days (or even
hours) pre- and/or pro-ceeding landing, the traveller spends the equivalent
cash on something far less condusive to her happiness. This thing or things
might well be 'good value' relative to other like goods (a cheap cocktail, I <3
NY shirt, Starbucks grande coffee-thing-or-whatever-they're-called) but
comparison to the misery of the 18 hours and the ensuing eye bags and sore
back, is rarely made.

Though certainly I am not suggesting that one should not indulge in coffee and
tourist shirts and the like. The FIRE (Financial independance / retire early)
movement certainly has some points from which I am definitely insired, but too
often is it taken to the extreme, and very often the point of life is to enjoy
coffee with friends and not just eat lentils and rice; all I'm saying is that
the $11.5 for the day old crossiant is probably better forgoing and spending on
another coffee tomorrow.

---

When one starts using the fact that money makes it very easy to compare
completely seperate domains of life, as well as thinking about what one
actually values (a bit of mindfullness does help here) and how much those
things cost, some interesting comparisons come to light. 

At the base of it though comes the: ***Work vs not work*** trade off, i.e., 
money in vs money out.

A lot fits within the **'Not work'** aspect of things (leisure, basic shelter
and food, holidays, coffee, I <3 NY t-shirts, hanging out with friends, Gucci
slides, toothpaste, 7 pints, etc.), as does the **'Work'** aspect (more hours
or less, higher/lower pay, flexibility, working for Lockheed Martin vs Against
Malaria, etc.) and one probably could, and some probably already have, written
a book on it. 

In lieu of a book of my own, here's a list and some quotes to finish:
 - Recognising what is the actually valuable part of an item or activity is
   pretty important. If I like travelling is it because I want to see some
   'sight' in person, or is it because I like meeting new people from new
   places (or even my place)? Similarly, if I like designer clothes is it
   because I like owning and appreciating the cutting edge design of this
   garment, or am I trying to compensate for feeling unseen by my rich parents
   in my childhood and should I spend the money on therapy instead? Do I like
   grabbing a coffee for the coffee itself, or is it the cute place (and
   barista)?
 - Work that one loves and enjoys makes things a lot easier and kinda collapses
   the trade off. Seems like a pretty good way to be, but obviously pretty hard
   and unpredictable. 
 - Maybe you should eat lentils and rice more (they are pretty fucking good if
   you do it right) and you can spend the money you save on not working, or
   vodka.
 - "Donâ€™t confuse scarcity with value. A really good afternoon in the park (a
   really good one) is maybe about as good as it gets." [source:
   Dynomight](https://dynomight.net/travel/)
 - "At either end of the social spectrum there lies a leisure class" -- some
   climber dude called Eric Beck.

*\* idk Claude said 2024, but take this with a grain of salt*
