---
title: "I've been doing stuff, just not posting"
date: 2025-08-10T14:46:56+10:00
draft: false
---

Hello there!

So I've not kept up with my initial intention of posting something on this
website each day but alas I have been making some good life progress. As of
writing this I am sitting in Corey's study in Bellevue Hill, Sydney. So I would
say that generally speaking I have been doing a bit each day, just on things
more important perhaps than I would've thought. 

***A recap:***

###### 2025-08-06
Prepared my things to go and start the drive down to Sydney. I also had the
first call w/Kevin and David regarding the business venture; seems like it
could be something rather exciting to be completely honest. It was a busy day.

##### 2025-08-07
The drive! I was up (before) the crack of dawn unfortunately, but got underway
at 0602 and had honestly quite a chill drive down to Port Macquarie and then
eventually Crowdy bay where my accomodation was. Certainly fun having the new
adventure and it gave me an appreciation for how easy it has been all this time
to just get on the road. It has certainly made me consider going on further
after I leave Corey's on the 29th of August --- say Melbourne or even Tassie?

![alt text](/crowdy-head.jpg "Crowdy head")

##### 2025-08-08
Waking up after the first sleep on a proper bed after over 2-months to a lovely
walk down the beach set myself up for a nice morning. After packing up and 
getting on the road, I got halfway on the detour into Newcastle and doubled
back; opting to fuel myself in a place more along the highway. 

The rest of the drive into Sydney was considerably pleasant and rather
enjoyable. 

Was great to hang-out with Corey and Brogan a bit at their appartment even
considering they were packing up to leave. We all enjoyed some pizza, Happy
Gilmore 2 & 1 (respectively), some deep/serious chats with Corey, and then
tucked in a bit late.

##### 2025-08-09
Corey and Brogan pushed out early, around 0540, and then I got to some
semi-systematic settling in. Score: 70%, a solid result but certainly room for
improvement.

I ended up binging Adolescence, which was great, but man this shows are too
intense for my already baseline anxiety inducing life. You'd need a soul
sucking job and/or a sense of purpose to constantly be watching this stuff.

##### 2025-08-10
That brings up to today. And it's honestly been quite good. More importantly a
good sign for what to come.

It was a hard start, was feeling pretty overwhelmed, but nonetheless I stuck to
the plan, and damn man, it felt good and pretty easy too.

The conjunctivitis is a bit of a bitch though. But for now it shall be
considered a test from those pesky Stoic Gods.

---

So going forward I think I'd like to add to this website with something at least
once a week, but I'd like to work towards such thing (or at least something new
or whatever) each day. 

Things I like the idea of writing an article about: 
 - Experiments in writing: a plan
 - Book reviews
 - A short story(?)
 - Economics (e.g., housing, wealth inequality, policy)
 - The good life
 - ...and other such topics wherever I'd like to clarify my opinion/s

---

A random side bar, I'll definitely have to nix these articles from whatever
final public site I actually share with people that I know lol. Or I'll forget
and someone will be reading this... Hi :upside_down_face:.

